---
title: "Part 1: Two Half-Elves, a Tiefling, and a Dwarf walk into a Foyer"
---

The wind whipped at his cloak has he stood on the deck of the ship, looking out over the choppy water to the jagged island of Jotunspine rising in the distance. The journey had been an arduous one, but Zamarin still managed to cut a striking silhouette as the ship neared port.

Once docked, Zamarin thanked the ships captain for his passage. The captain guffawed, “No, it is me who should be thanking you! Without your truly exceptional navigational skills, we might never have made it!”
Ever gracious, Zamarin just smiled and said, “It was nothing, really.”

With that he strode off the ship and down the dock, headed for the warm comfort of the nicest inn on the island. Even a hardy ranger the likes of he can enjoy the finer things in life!

***

The next morning, well fed and rested, our hero made his way to the Keep of the Whitehand clan to make his presence known to the Jarl. The previous night the inn-keep had mentioned that the Jarl’s ward had gone missing, and all the search parties had come up empty. Instantly Zamarin sensed a chance to earn some coin — and to help save a weak and innocent child, of course.

Befitting his reputation, Zamarin was ushered quickly into the foyer of the Keep by a stooped, but still sturdy looking, old man missing an eye and a hand, where he was asked to wait a moment while the Jarl prepared to meet him.

A fellow half-elf, a dwarf, and a tiefling, _of all things_, were already waiting in the foyer. _The Jarl must be desperate_, Zamarin thought, _good thing he’s got me now, assuming the coin is right, of course_. A wise half-elf would never do something he was so skilled at for free.

The conversation was stifled at first, as they waited there in the foyer. _Clearly they feel nervous in my humble presence_. Brief introductions were made; Sola Vagari the fellow half-elf, Dain the dwarf, and Vadania Fenriz the tiefling.

After a time the old man returned and they were led in to the great hall. A large table, flanked by thirty or so clansmen, stood in the centre of the room. At the far end sat the Jarl. All were eating, drinking, and talking as the group entered. Not a single one looked up, much to our hero’s chagrin, although he appreciated being in a place where not everyone knew his name (and he was sure they’d soon come to learn it).

The Jarl bade them welcome as they approached, and quickly got to conveying the details of his wards disappearance.
“She’s been obsessed with these myths of this damn Keep!” He said. “Spending all her time in the library reading this and then that about the legend of Icegate! The place doesn’t even exist, I’ve told her as much. And now I think she’s got it in her head that she can find the blasted thing! We’ve sent out search parties, but I can’t afford to send anyone into the mountains where they say the Keep exists.” 
His eyes fixed on Zamarin’s, “Please, find my ward! You can’t imagine the turmoil it would cause if she were lost for good!”
_Clearly he knows who’s the most competent of this party we appear to have formed_, Zamarin thought, maintaining a deep, brooding eye-contact with the Jarl.

“I can offer you ten gold per head for her safe return” The Jarl continued. Zamarin scoffed at this, _a measly ten gold, who does he think I am!_ But before he could say anything, the tiefling, Vadania, jumped in.
“Fifty each” She said. The Jarl huffed. _This works,_ Zamarin thought, _let her be the bad guy_.
“Forty,” the Jarl replied, somewhat annoyed, “and that’s the highest I’ll go”
Vadania glanced at the others. Zamarin gave a slight, yet dashing, smile, as if to say, “works for me”. _Not as much as I was hoping for,_ he thought, _but at least I remain chivalrous, not asking for more gold to rescue a sweet, misguided girl._
“Fine” said Vadania.
“Fine,” puffed the Jarl, “Greybeard will take you to get supplies and guide you to the edge of our land. From there you’re on your own.”
He motioned to the old man with the stump for a hand and missing eye. With that, they were led from the relative warmth of the great hall and back out into the biting cold.

***

The supplies shop — _more of a shack_, Zamarin thought — was as cold and draughty inside as it was outdoors. A giantess stooped behind the counter. _If she stretched, she’d take the roof out_.

As they were perusing the few, meagre wares the shop had to offer, Zamarin felt a strange sensation on the back of his head. Without looking he reached up behind and caught the blanket that was flying towards him. Vadania, having had second thoughts after picking it up, had thrown it, _rather carelessly_, away. _Low quality, harsh fibres, so threadbare the wind would hardly notice it,_ he thought, and so he tossed it skilfully toward the others.

When they had gathered all they required, the group went to pay. Vadania tried her best to haggle, and managed to get the price of her supplies down by a whole gold piece. Never one to con an honest working giantess out of her hard earned pay, Zamarin ensured he paid full price for her wares.

All kitted up, Greybeard guided them to the outskirts of the village. As they were walking Zamarin tactfully asked Greybeard about his missing hand and eye.
“I lost the eye in a tavern brawl,” he said. He also spoke briefly about his missing hand, but the story was far less fun and not worth recounting.

***

They had been walking for some time when Greybeard said, “This  is the edge of our territory, and where I must leave you. I appreciate you asking about the hand, Zamarin.”
_Bit weird, but okay._
“I suggest you keep heading in this direction,” due east as Zamarin well knew, with his exceptional navigation skills. “Head to the Giantspine Mountains, it’s likely that’s where she’s gone.”

They bid farewell to Greybeard and carried on with their journey. Not long after, they were confronted by their first obstacle. A large gorge, almost forty feet across, blocked their path.

Looking down the steep edges, they saw a fast flowing river spanning half the width of the gorge, with shale banking either side. Vadania decided, for some unknowable reason, that the simplest and quickest course of action was to walk down the steep side. She was right about it being simple and quick, but after the first few steps she went from walking to slipping to tumbling down to the bottom of the gorge.

Knowing how tough tieflings were, and how important the mission was, Zamarin called out and asked, “How does it look from down there?”
She responded with a glassy glare and stony silence. _Well, that’s not very friendly,_ he thought.

Taking the smarter course of action, Zamarin tied his rope around the nearest sturdy looking rock — cleverly knotted in such a way that it would loosen and allow later retrieval given a hefty tug. Our hero proceeded to skilfully abseil down the side of the gorge, finally coming to ground a short distance from Vadania. Sola and Dain followed suit, albeit somewhat less impressively. Dain gave the rope a solid tug and, as expected, it came loose and tumbled down to the ground, where Zamarin collected it.

Once down they surveyed the river. 
“It’s flowing fast, it’ll be difficult and dangerous for us to cross here.” Said Sola.
So the decision was made to find a narrower place to cross. They walked upstream for a time, but the river didn’t seem to be shrinking as much as they’d hoped. At most it had thinned by only five feet.

“Perhaps, if we weigh ourselves down, we can walk across?” Zamarin mused, but alas there weren’t enough heavy rocks around to make it a feasible plan.
“Someone’s going to have to swim across,” Vadania said, “and it’s certainly not going to be me, I hate the water.”
“I’m too light!” Said Sola.
“And I’m too short, I’ll likely drown!” Dain remarked.

Zamarin sighed, knowing that once again, he was the only option the group had if they ever wanted to succeed.
“Fine, I guess I’ll do it” he said, begrudgingly but not unwillingly.
He tied his rope around his waist and tossed the other end to the others.
“Hold this” he said, before turning and heading to the water.

With incredible strength and fortitude, Zamarin swam to the opposite bank. Once out he stood fast and took hold of the rope, which was still tied around his waist, and called back to the other side, “Who’s next?”

“I’ll go,” called Vadania, leaving Dain and Sola to hold the rope on their side. She competently army-crawled her way across, taking care to not touch the water. As she crossed, she chose that opportunity so display her acrobatic skills.
“Fucking tieflings,” mumbled Zamarin, “could lay off the cake at least.”

With two of them safely across, it was Dain’s turn. He too tried to army-crawl his way across, but halfway along seemingly decided to let go. He was washed a good twenty feet downstream before managing to wade onto the shore. He trudged back to the group, drenched to the bone.
“Why’d you let go?” Zamarin asked.
“I didn’t mean to!” Said Dain.
Zamarin shrugged and turned back to Sola.
“Pull me across!” She called, wading to the edge of the water. Our hero, with a little help from Dain and Vadania, pulled her across with ease.

Having all made it safely across, the hard part was done. Now all they had to do was scale the other side of the gorge. For Zamarin, such a feat was but a trifle! He took two arrows from his quiver, held them in his fists with the point facing out, and started to scale the rock face, climbing hand over hand.

Once at the top, taking only a moment to look back down smugly, he tied his rope to another sturdy rock and tossed the end down.

As the others climbed the rope, Zamarin took a moment to survey the area. The tree-line started a short distance away from the gorge, the edge of a dark, thick forest. The crossing of the gorge had taken a fair chunk of time out of their day, and they were starting to loose the light.

“We best camp here for the night.” Said Vadania, pointing to the tree-line. Dain set about collecting firewood and making a camp fire, desperate to dry his drenched self. Vadania walked the perimeter, setting some traps she’d bought from the giantess. Once camp was set, the group ate and slept, taking a well earned rest.

They woke early the next morning and Vadania set off to check her traps. What she found was not at all what she had hoped for. Their camp had been surrounded by a pack of vicious looking wolves.